This is an overview of how the ITC system works, as far as I'm able to tell.

ITC packets consist of an encoded and CRC checked header, followed by
data, and optional HMAC and CRC fields.  The data (and HMAC/CRC) is
sent in interleaved blocks with a 12,16 FEC code.  The header has
packet length, a type field and a modulation field (unused I think).

Addressing over ITC at the radio link level is done by a 24-bit radio
ID.  Messages are either broadcasts with no IDs (like Wayside status
messages), or else sent with just a transmitter ID, or both
transmitter and receiver ID.

For future decoding we will want to create mapping files between
radio-IDs and WIU IDs and Locomotive Unit numbers.

There are a number of link-layer packets that manage the radio
protocol, these are mostly packet types 1-7.

0x02: Base Beacon - broadcast by a base with its GPS coordinates and
local channel numbers to use for the base coverage area

0x05: CNTL - sent by base at beginning of each superframe to
dynamically allocate DTMA slots needed for extra transmissions

0x01: QSTAT - sent by remotes to base to request slots for extra transmissions

0x03: ACK - not sure why or when these are sent

0x04: ACQ - sent by loco's and other mobile units entering a new base territory

0x06: TIME - time and date broadcast (UTC)

0x07: unknown

Then there are the actual PTC packets (types 0x33/34) for Wayside
status.  33 is a regular/periodic broadcast (which may not occur if
the signal is currently "off").  34 is the same but it is in response
to a status request (usually from a locomotive, not sure what packet
they send to request this).

ITCMON will highlight WIU status in Blue for a 34, and in Red for an
actual change in the indicators (signals and switches).

Other ITC messages are in the All Others tab and most often type 0x70.
The most interesting of these are EMP (Edge Messaging Protocol)
messages (though they seem to be reformatted from the actual
documents, probably to save bandwidth on the Radio link.  Some of
these messages appear to be ATCS over ITC and in these you can
sometimes find a Codeline Data field.  The trick will be how to try to
match these up with ATCS data fields we already have.
