
SOFTWARE DETAILS

First, notes on JSON config files: These are for easy exchange between
programs and aren't the easiest to edit by hand.  This format also
allows for a future config editing program to be easily built.  In
particular, common mistakes are mismatched braces and leaving out or
adding excess commas.  The software will not read a file with these
errors.  You can use online JSON syntax checkers and upload your files
to test them if you suspect an issue.



MCR, the Multi-Channel Receiver

MCR reads the mcr.json file for default settings (RTL device#, gain, ppm correction, and channels).

Optional args:

"-a" receive all channels at both data rates
"-d #" to set the RTL device number, for example, "mcr -d 2" if your RTL is #2.
"-g #" to set rfgain (a float).  Use 0 to set the RTL for AGC.
"-e #" to set you ppm correction value (like "-e 2" or "-e -3")
"-q #" to set squelch level. Default of 5.0 is low (very sensitive to low signals).  16 is mid, 32-64 high.
"-D" will display rf bursts received.

MCR starts up a subprocess called S2P (Signal to Packets) to process
signals received on each enabled channel (one for each configured
channel and modulation rate).  MCR sends I/Q samples to each S2P
process using UDP packets to your loopback (127.0.0.1) interface.
Each S2P process serves the decoded packet data on a TCP port for
ITCMON.

MCR is the program that uses the most resources (CPU and UDP packets),
so you'll want to disable channels (or particular channel/data-rate
combos) that you don't need once you figure out which are active.

All Packets are Forward Error Correct and CRC checked.  Unfortunately,
we can not check the HMAC field, which leaves us open to packet
spoofing by the railroads.



ITCMON

ITCMON reads ITCMON.JSON at startup (for what channels to enable),
the WIUS subdirectories (for how to name and decode WIU data), RRDATA.JSON (how to
decode WIU ID RR#s and interpret Signal numbers), and DECODERS.JSON
(how to decode and display "All Others" packets).  You can edit any of
these if they are incorrect.

The Wayside Info files are stored in a subdirectory called
WIUS/rrr/rrrddd.json.  rrr is the railroad id number and ddd is the
"subdivision" number (really just a line or area).  The program will
load these files as needed when it sees WIU packets.

The Servers tab is where you can edit which channels to monitor (if
MCR is set to receive them).  However, it doesn't use any extra
resources to just leave them all enabled.  You can check the packet
counts to see what is active.

On the Monitoring tab you can use "Start Monitoring" to begin and  "Stop" to halt.

"Record" will log and append most useful packets to the PACKETS.HEX file.
"Snapshot" will dump the last 20 packets received to the same file (only if record not active).

"Playback" will read the packets.hex file and play them back as if received,
 this might be useful to test out new WIU indicators and Decoders.
 
"Save WIUs" will save newly received WIUs to the wiu files
directory and add them to any existing entries.  On the "Server" tab
you can also select and load WIU data from any filename.

When a new WIU is discovered, the program will try to automatically
figure out which bits are signals or switches (it can get this wrong).
When you hit "Save WIUs" it will write these guesses out to the wius
subdirectory files.  Then you can go edit these entries to correct any
mistakes it might have made, and to add a name if you figure out its
location.  In this file you can label bit fields as "switch" (2 bits),
"signal" (5 bits), or "hazard" or just "bit" (1 bit), followed by an
ID string (usually a track number).  After editing your WIUs (or
decoders.json) you can use the "reload decoders" button to read in the
updates (which only apply to newly received packets).  Apparently,
BNSF and UP mostly list switches followed by signals, and other
railroads do it the opposite.

The RRDATA.JSON file maps railroad numbers (digits 2-4 of a Wayside ID)
to a railroad name.  Then the Signals table for that railroad is used to
decode the signal numbers to names.  The current table was guessed from web
sources and may not be correct or complete.

The DECODERS.JSON file tells ITCMON how to decode and display packets
in the "All Others" tab.  Some of the packets and fields have been
figured out already but many things are unknown.  Unknown fields are
often named Flags or X.  You specify a bitfield, give it a name, how
many bits it uses, and how to display it.  Display types are things
like "04x" to display 16-bits as 4 hex characters, and "d" for
decimal.  For strings there are 3 options: "*:s" takes the string
length from the first byte followed by the string.  "0:s" displays a
string terminated with a zero byte, and "N:s" displays a fixed length
string of N characters.



WIU STATUS ZMQ SERVER

ITCMON runs a ZMQ PUB server on port 18001.  It will publish WIU update
messages as JSON. This can be used by other software, for example, a
dispatcher type display, or to set off alarms for particular
conditions.  A sample python program (for developers) called
get_wiu_status.py is included to retrieve and display the messages.
All WIU messages will be sent, and "inew" will indicate if any
indication states have changed since the last message or not.
The messages will look like this (run the program for the latest output format):
  {"proto":"PTC","type":"WIU",
   "WIUID":"7802077509103","data":"BDEF00","seq":124,"inew":true,
   "indicators":[{"switch":1,"ind":"R"},{"signal":1,"ind":15},{"signal":2,"ind":15},{"signal":3,"ind":15}]
  }

*NOTE: the "inew" and "indicators" field will stop being sent in a future release.
You will need to decode these by reading the wiu json files or some other way.

If you write code to use this make sure to check the proto and type
fields match the above constant strings, as new types will be output
in the future.
