This is more advanced info for app and server developers:

The ITC directory server is designed to allow clients anywhere to
locate servers and WIU data files for particular railroads and
regions.  This will become more important if this stuff takes off and
we have lots of regional servers.  It assumes all regional servers
will run on public IP addresses.

The general idea is that a directory server would run on each
regional, and at least one national server (hopefully at least 2).
When an app wants to locate a server for a particular area it uses the
WIU prefix as the search key.  This is the first 6 digits of the WIU
(after the "7").  So for WIU 780212345678 the key is 802123.  The app
would ask the local directory server where to get info for 802123, and
it would either respond that it is serving that info, or it would get
a referral "up the tree" to the next higher server (most likely just
the national server).  The national server would then refer the app
back down to another regional server that has the data.

This is all implemented by the itcdir program (written in nodejs), and
the interface is via a REST api.  itcdir reads the itcdir.json file on
startup to find out what prefixes it serves.  The server runs on port 4014.

This is what you can ask the itcdir server:

 GET  /api/search?key=<search-string>

This will return a list of matching areas from the names.json
More doc needed here!

 GET  /api/find?wp=rrrnnn

FIND will return the hostname and port of the zjpub servers for that
prefix, or a referral to another server to ask.

Once you found the correct server, you can ask the server for the
WIU.JSON file data for decoding all the WIU info for that prefix,
using:

 GET  /api/get?wp=rrrnnn[&newer=yyyymmddhhmmss]

The "newer" option is to only ask for the info if it is newer that the
specified date and time.  You will get back a complete json file with
all the data for that prefix.

itcdir files can also notify their upstream servers about what
prefixes they serve using:

 POST /api/serving?wp=rrrnnn&server=hostname

itcdir will log those to the file itcdir.updates for manual review,
then the admin can add them to the local itcdir.json file.


The program itcdir needs nodejs installed and is started with "node itcdir.js".

A companion search program for testing is called wpfind.py and you can do a query
by invoking it as "python wpfind.py 802123"
